
  Hi all,

  First off: Thanks for taking a look at QML (Quantity modeling
  language). I bet you are wondering what "QML" is, eh? Ok, here's
  a quick shot at defining it: 

     QML is a "thing"-based language for scientific and 
     mathematical data modeling. Each "thing" is a "quantity" which 
     is be associated with a structure and a semantic definition..which
     for our purposes is a physical phenomena (like "star" or 
     "fluid temperature"). 

     Quantities in turn, may hold other Quantities or values (numbers
     or strings). Higher-level data models, which associate/define 
     semantic meanings to various quantities (e.g. "velocity", "position"), 
     can be built from these basic quantities. The higher-level data model (XML)
     schema that inherit from QML may be understood and its instance 
     documents parsed into QML documents / objects by the QMLReader. QML 
     is serialized in XML and useful for describing the things within an
     XML-based (aka "OWL") ontology.


  Second: This is an *alpha* release of the QML Java IO package.
  "alpha" means that the package is feature incomplete (see the TODO
  file) and that the interface to existing package functionality may
  vary from version to version as well. Certainly, there can also be 
  some significant bugs. Some existing features may break from version
  to version. Right now the majority of my effort is to add the new planned 
  features from the development roadmap, stability will come afterwards.

  My expectation is that a "beta" package can be produced some time by 
  the end of the fall, 2006, and a "stable" package for the winter 2007.

  Third: if you just want to install this and run it, you can stop
  wasting time with this README. Proceed directly to the "INSTALL"
  file.

  fourth: We have a development roadmap (finally!). Clear(er) definition
  about what the version numbers mean!!

  fifth: I am very open to contributions and development help. Please 
  contact me if you are interested.

  Lastly, as a notice to my employers, and whomever else is concerned:

  While this work overlaps heavily with my professional interests
  in Grid computing and the Virtual Observatory, the package was
  wholly developed on my own time, away from work. I did this, not
  because I wished to annoy my wife (which I did do), but because 
  I wanted this package to be free and clear of any institutional
  entanglements/licensing problems.

  As a result, this package is licensed under the Lessor GNU Public
  License (LGPL) so that it may be used by the broadest audience
  possible. When you are using/hacking/modifying this package, all 
  that I ask is that if you develop a good patch, to let be know 
  about it so that it might be incorporated within QML.


  =b.t.
  (baba-luu@earthlink.net)

  --- 

  This package (and my work on QML) is dedicated to my Mother, 
  Freida Ann Thomas, who passed away from cancer while I was working 
  on the early versions of it. I love and miss you very much mom. 


